Who needs Starbucks when you can make these Bacon Egg Muffins at home! They are super easy to make and are perfect for meal prep! They are also low in carbs, high in protein, and absolutely packed with flavor!

Three bacon egg muffins on a white plate with a silver fork. 
WANT TO SAVE THIS RECIPE?

Enter your email below & we'll send it straight to your inbox! You will also receive other new recipes in your inbox weekly!



SAVE
BACON EGG CUPS

Egg muffin cups are one of my favorite easy breakfasts because they are perfectly portioned and super easy to make. This version is savory, with crispy bacon, gooey cheese and fresh green onions for a super flavor-packed breakfast or snack.

These are especially great for busy mornings when the family has to eat and be out the door quickly! Instead of scrambling (no pun intended) for breakfast, you can have these on hand, pop them in the microwave and go! You can even keep them in the freezer and warm them up straight from frozen!


Bacon egg muffin cups in a silver muffin tin. 

BACON EGG MUFFIN INGREDIENTS

Butter: You will need some softened butter to grease up the muffin tins! Make sure to be thorough, to ensure that they don’t stick. I’ve found that they tend to stick more with cooking spray so if you do use it spray liberally or make sure to use a nonstick coated muffin tin.
Eggs: I used whole eggs here but you can feel free to use just egg whites if you prefer.
Whole Milk: A bit of milk will make these muffins super fluffy and soft.
Bacon: You will need cooked and crumbled bacon for these egg muffin cups. I like to make mine in the air fryer while I am prepping the rest of my ingredients.
Cheddar Cheese: Cheddar cheese adds lots of flavor and who doesn’t love cheesy eggs?!
Green Onions: Sliced green onions or chives add a lovely flavor and texture! Plus they add a nice pop of color!
Seasonings: Onion powder, garlic powder, salt and pepper season up these bacon egg muffins to savory perfection!
HOW TO MAKE BACON EGG MUFFINS

Preheat & Prep: Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Generously grease a muffin tin with butter, set aside.
Muffin tin that has been greased with butter. 

Whisk Egg Mixture: In a medium bowl whisk together eggs, milk, bacon, green onions, 1 cup cheese, onion powder, garlic powder, pepper and salt. Set aside.
Eggs being whisked with chives, cheese and bacon. 

Pour into Muffin Tin: Pour in the egg mixture, filling each cavity 3/4 of the way full. Sprinkle with the remaining 1/2 cup of cheddar cheese.
Egg mixture in the muffin tin before being baked. 

Bake: Bake for 15-20 minutes or until the egg muffins look set. Note: they will puff up as they cook and deflate as they cool.
Serve & Enjoy: Cool for 2-3 minutes in the pan, then remove and serve immediately! Enjoy!
Egg muffins in the muffin tin after being baked. 

TIPS FOR SUCCESS

Don’t over fill the muffin tin! Make sure to only fill each muffin cavity 3/4 of the way full since they will expand as they bake. If they are too full, they will end up spilling over the sides, making them more difficult to take out of the tin!
Make them your own! The beauty of egg muffin cups is they are super versatile and you can add whatever you want. Add some extra veggies like broccoli or mushrooms, or switch up the cheese and use mozzarella or gruyere!
Grease muffin tin with butter! I highly recommend using butter to grease the muffin tins. I have tried using cooking spray and the egg muffins will stick slightly and make the muffin tin so much harder to clean!

Who needs Starbucks when you can make these Bacon Egg Muffins at home! They are super easy to make and are perfect for meal prep! They are also low in carbs, high in protein, and absolutely packed with flavor!
SERVINGS: 12PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES MINS20 MINUTES MINSTOTAL TIME: 30 MINUTES MINS

INGREDIENTS
 

softened butter for greasing the muffin tins
10 large eggs
1/2 cup whole milk
1/2 lb bacon, cooked and crumbled
1 1/2 cups cheddar cheese, shredded and divided
1/2 cup green onions, chopped
1/2 tsp onion powder
1/2 tsp garlic powder
1/4 tsp salt
1/4 tsp pepper

INSTRUCTIONS
 



Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Generously grease muffin tin with butter, set aside.


In a medium bowl whisk together eggs, milk, bacon, green onions, 1 cup cheese, onion powder, garlic powder, pepper and salt, set aside.


Pour in the egg mixture filling each cavity 3/4 of the way full.
Sprinkle with the remaining 1/2 cup of cheddar cheese.


Bake for 15-20 minutes or until the egg muffins look set. Note they will puff up as they cook and will deflate as they cool. 
Cool for 2-3 minutes in the pan then remove and serve immediately!

NOTES

Store leftovers in an airtight container or plastic bag in the fridge for up to 5 days or freeze for up to 6 months.
To reheat from chilled, simply microwave for a minute or so, until warmed through. You can also reheat in a skillet with a little bit of water and cover until heated through.
Reheat from frozen by wrapping the egg cups in a damp paper towel and microwaving for a minute or two.
NUTRITION INFORMATION

CALORIES: 204KCALCARBOHYDRATES: 2GPROTEIN: 11GFAT: 17GSATURATED FAT: 7GPOLYUNSATURATED FAT: 2GMONOUNSATURATED FAT: 6GTRANS FAT: 0.04GCHOLESTEROL: 183MGSODIUM: 330MGPOTASSIUM: 135MGFIBER: 0.1GSUGAR: 1GVITAMIN A: 432IUVITAMIN C: 1MGCALCIUM: 140MGIRON: 1MG